# Counter-Archives in Digital Spaces [https://counterarchives.com](https://counterarchives.com)
### Patricia Belen

As evidence of human activities and time periods, archives are invaluable resources for research and the historical record. Digital, public archives are powerful sites of memory and discourse. Since 2005, The New York Public Library (NYPL) Digital Collections platform has provided over 900,000 prints, photographs, maps, manuscripts, and more on their public website. However, recent calls for museums and heritage institutions to confront their legacies of colonialism have led to scholarly and activist work in the area of counter-archives that address inequalities and empower excluded voices. [Counter-Archives in Digital Spaces](https://counterarchives.com) is an interactive website that explores history and visual literacy using a group of digitized objects from the NYPL as the basis to form new perspectives and alternative narratives by exploiting artistic, experimental, and ludic strategies in interface design, suggesting how archives can be seen through new lenses. Using a data set of problematic cigarette cards from 1889, the website presents three case studies in what I term a “reluctant interface” that purposefully slows down and obfuscates the viewing experience for visual materials, an interface that is ambivalent about what it shows. The project uses an interactive experience that places the cards in various frameworks to posit questions of absence, visibility, representation, human value, and other provocations. Displaying counter-archives in a digital space has the potential to transform relationships between visual materials and between the viewer and the materials.

